# portfolio Herma Ardesch
Raised in an environment in which Bach's music was predominant, I learned to play the flute and developed a preference for the music of Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach (1714-1788) and his ‘Empfindsame Stil’ with many unexpected melodic and harmonic turns to symbolize mood swings. My corpus consists of selected music, e.g. flute concertos, symphonies and cello concertos. 

Selection criterium is whether Spotify provides a performance played with authentic instruments and the same track played with modern instruments, since I would like to compare both versions. The differences in tempo, interpretation and instrumental sound will be my focus, because I expect these are main points of difference between authentic and modern performance practices. Of course I also need to consider the pitch of both groups, since authentic instruments usually play in a different tuning, resulting in a lower pitch. I’m not sure if the Spotify API can identify the various mood swings in the music. Tracks played on modern instruments compared to those played on authentic instruments are representative because of the differences mentioned above. 

Typical tracks to compare in my portfolio are: the Andante and Allegro II of C.Ph.E. Bach’s Flute Concerto in A minor, Wq 166 in the authentic performance of Konrad Hünteler with the Amsterdam Baroque Orchestra (Ton Koopman) and the modern performance of Emmanuel Pahud with the Kammerakademie Potsdam (Trevor Pinnock). Both performances take a different tempo and the wooden baroque flute has quite a different sound character, compared to the modern silver or golden Böhm-flute.
